Rework index manipulation API (#416)
Jutho/TensorKit.jl: docs/src/man/indexmanipulations.md

# [Index manipulations](@id s_indexmanipulations)

```@meta
CollapsedDocStrings = true
```

```@setup indexmanip
using TensorKit
using LinearAlgebra
```

A `TensorMap{T, S, N₁, N₂}` is a linear map from a domain (a `ProductSpace{S, N₂}`) to a codomain (a `ProductSpace{S, N₁}`).

> In practice, the bipartition of the `N₁ + N₂` indices between domain and codomain is often not fixed: algorithms typically need to reshuffle indices between the two sides, reorder them, or change the arrow direction on individual indices before passing a tensor to a factorization or contraction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In practice, the bipartition of the `N₁ + N₂` indices between domain and codomain rarely remains fixed: algorithms typically need to reshuffle indices between the two sides, reorder them, or change the arrow direction on individual indices before passing a tensor to a factorization or contraction.
```

*   **Reweighting**: [`flip`](@ref) and [`twist`](@ref) apply local isomorphisms to individual indices without changing the index structure.
*   **Space insertion/removal**: [`insertleftunit`](@ref), [`insertrightunit`](@ref) and [`removeunit`](@ref) add or remove trivial (scalar) index factors.
*   **Index rearrangements**: [`permute`](@ref), [`braid`](@ref), [`transpose`](@ref) and [`repartition`](@ref) reorder indices and/or move them between domain and codomain.

Throughout this page, new index positions are specified using `Index2Tuple{N₁, N₂}`, i.e. a pair `(p₁, p₂)` of index tuples.
The indices listed in `p₁` form the new codomain and those in `p₂` form the new domain.
The following helpers retrieve the current index structure of a tensor:

```@docs; canonical=false
numout
numin
numind
codomainind
domainind
allind
```

## Reweighting

Reweighting operations modify the entries of a tensor by applying local isomorphisms to individual indices, without changing the number of indices or their partition between domain and codomain.

[`flip`](@ref) changes the arrow direction on selected indices by applying the corresponding isomorphism between a space and its dual.

> [`twist`](@ref) applies the topological spin (monoidal twist) to selected indices; for `BraidingStyle(I) == Bosonic()` this is always trivial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reweighting operations modify the entries of a tensor by applying local isomorphisms to individual indices, without changing the number of indices or their partition between domain and codomain.
In particular, [`twist`](@ref) applies the topological spin (monoidal twist) to selected indices; this operation preserves the space of the indices and is completely trivial for `BraidingStyle(I) == Bosonic()`.
In contrast, [`flip`](@ref) changes the arrow direction on selected indices by applying a (non-canonical!) isomorphism between the index space and its dual.
```

```@docs; canonical=false
flip(t::AbstractTensorMap, I)
twist(::AbstractTensorMap, ::Int)

> twist!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
twist(::AbstractTensorMap, ::Int)
twist!
flip(t::AbstractTensorMap, I)
```

```

## Inserting and removing unit spaces

These functions add or remove a trivial tensor product factor at a specified index position, without affecting any other indices.
[`insertleftunit`](@ref) inserts before position `i` and [`insertrightunit`](@ref) inserts after position `i`; [`removeunit`](@ref) undoes either insertion.

> Passing `Val(i)` instead of an `Int` for the position may improve type stability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next set of functions add or remove a trivial tensor product factor at a specified index position, without affecting any other indices.
We distinguish between [`insertleftunit`](@ref), which inserts a unit index before index `i` (the unit index becoming index `i`),
and [`insertrightunit`](@ref), which inserts after index `i` (the unit index becoming index `i + 1`);
[`removeunit`](@ref) undoes either insertion.

For tensors `t` with `UnitStyle(sectortype(t)) = SimpleUnit()`, the only relevant difference between `insertleftunit(t, i + 1)` and `insertrightunit(t, i)` is that `insertleftunit(t, numout(t) + 1)` inserts the unit index as first index in the domain, whereas `insertrightunit(t, numout(t))` will insert the unit index as last index in the codomain. 

Passing `Val(i)` instead of an integer `i` for the position may improve type stability.
```

- [`permute`](@ref) is a simpler interface for sector types with a symmetric braiding (`BraidingStyle(I) isa SymmetricBraiding`), where over- and under-crossings are equivalent and `levels` is therefore not needed.
- [`transpose`](@ref) is restricted to *cyclic* permutations (indices do not cross).
- [`repartition`](@ref) only moves the codomain/domain boundary without reordering the indices at all.

For plain tensors (`sectortype(t) == Trivial`), `permute` and `braid` act like `permutedims` on the underlying array:

```@repl indexmanip
V = ℂ^2;
t = randn(V ⊗ V ← V ⊗ V);
ta = convert(Array, t);
t′ = permute(t, ((4, 2, 3), (1,)));
convert(Array, t′) ≈ permutedims(ta, (4, 2, 3, 1))
```

```@docs; canonical=false
braid(::AbstractTensorMap, ::Index2Tuple, ::IndexTuple)
braid!
permute(::AbstractTensorMap, ::Index2Tuple)
permute!(::AbstractTensorMap, ::AbstractTensorMap, ::Index2Tuple)
transpose(::AbstractTensorMap, ::Index2Tuple)
transpose!
repartition(::AbstractTensorMap, ::Int, ::Int)
repartition!
```

## Fusing and splitting indices

> There is no dedicated function for fusing or splitting indices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no dedicated functionality for fusing or splitting indices.
```

For a plain tensor (`sectortype(t) == Trivial`), this is equivalent to `reshape` on the underlying array.

In the general case there is no canonical embedding of `V1 ⊗ V2` into the fused space `V = fuse(V1 ⊗ V2)`: any two such embeddings differ by a basis transform, i.e. there is a gauge freedom.
TensorKit resolves this by requiring the user to construct an explicit isomorphism — the *fuser* — and contract it with the tensor:

```julia
f = unitary(fuse(space(t, i) ⊗ space(t, j)), space(t, i) ⊗ space(t, j))
@tensor t_fused[…, a, …] := f[a, i, j] * t[…, i, j, …]
```

Splitting is then the adjoint of the same map:

```julia
@tensor t_split[…, i, j, …] := f'[i, j, a] * t_fused[…, a, …]
```

Using `f'` as the splitter guarantees that the round-trip is the identity, i.e. `t_split == t`.

> Using a *different* isomorphism to split would give a physically equivalent but numerically different tensor, so it is important to keep `f` and its adjoint consistent throughout a calculation.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
In the general case there is no canonical embedding of `V1 ⊗ V2` into the fused space `V = fuse(V1 ⊗ V2)`: any two such embeddings differ by a basis transform, i.e. there is a gauge freedom.
TensorKit resolves this by requiring the user to construct an explicit isomorphism — the *fuser* — and contract it with the tensor.
One particular isomorphism can be constructed using the [`unitary](@ref) function.
It preserves norms and inner products, and has an inverse given by its adjoint. 
For a plain tensor (`sectortype(t) == Trivial`), applying this particular `unitary` is equivalent to `reshape` on the underlying array.

Fusing index `i` and `j = i+1` of a tensor `t` is then accomplished as

```julia
f = unitary(fuse(space(t, i) ⊗ space(t, j)), space(t, i) ⊗ space(t, j))
@tensor t_fused[…, a, …] := f[a, i, j] * t[…, i, j, …]
```

while splitting 

```julia
@tensor t_split[…, i, j, …] := f'[i, j, a] * t_fused[…, a, …]
```

using `f'` as the splitter guarantees that the round-trip is the identity, i.e. `t_split == t`.
````

> Note that tensor factorizations (SVD, QR, etc.) can be applied directly to any index bipartition without needing to fuse indices first; see [Tensor factorizations](@ref ss_tensor_factorization).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resulting `unitary` is a dense `TensorMap`, and this fusion and splitting approach is not optimized for maximal performance. However, because many tensor operations including tensor factorizations (SVD, QR, etc.) can be applied without needing any fusion, we do not expect fusion and splitting to be an essential part of performance critical parts of typical tensor algorithms. 
```
